# Open Budget Sacramento

## Contributing
We welcome contributions! If you are curious how to get started, view the project page at TODO: https://codeforsacramento.org/projects to learn more. Get involved with Code for Sacramento by attending our virtual meetups.

## Frontend Web Server
Run the front end by starting the web server in the [/frontend](/frontend) directory.
```sh
cd frontend; npm install; npm start
```

## Budget Data
Run the files in the [/scripts](/scripts/) folder to generate budget data for the application. The source of the budget data is the City of Sacramento Approved Budget, published by the City of Sacramento's [data portal](https://data.cityofsacramento.org/search?tags=Budget%20%26%20Finance). The files are saved in the [budgets](/budgets/) folder, along with a config file that the scripts use to parse it. For more information, view the [budget-data.md](/documentation/budget-data.md) documentation.
```sh
python scripts/treemap_process_data.py budgets/1332_approved/City_of_Sacramento_Approved_Budgets.csv budgets/1322_approved/config.json
```

## Documentation
Learn about how works this repository works by viewing the files in the [documentation](/documentation/) folder. TODO: There is a documentation-viewer web page that can be generated by [Sphinx](https://www.sphinx-doc.org). Documentation is also hosted in the project's [Google Drive folder](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1O--DF8uJg1zsLov4FeJALKlHqDGwHdR2?usp=sharing).

## Run with VSCode
TODO: This repository includes run/debug configurations for VSCode. For more information about other editors, see [running-with-ides.md](documentation/running-with-ides.md).
* **Run React Web Server**
* **Build React Web Server**
* **Test React Web Server**
* **Generate Treemap Data**
* **Generate Flow Data**
* **Generate Compare Data**

## Run with Make
TODO: Running various tasks can be done with Make from the root directory.
* **Run docker container:** ```make local```
* **Run React web server:** ```make launch_react```
* **Test React web server:** ```make test_react```
* **Build React web server:** ```make build_react```
* **Run budget data scripts:** ```make run_budget```
* **Test budget data Scripts:** ```make test_budget```
* **View documentation:** ```make sphinx```

## Docker
TODO: The frontend website and documentation server can be run at the same time by using docker.
```sh
docker compose up
```
